# FinTech
# tramdth

Nowadays, many people talk a lot about the FinTech. So, what is the FinTech? To define FinTech is complex because its means different things to different people. So that, what you define it as depend on how you are approaching it. 
Firstly, I give you four different perspectives about the FinTech: the perspective of a large firm, a startup, a consumer and an investor. Looking at the perspective of the large firms, FinTech is not new. We have been doing FinTech for decades, we have been using technology and finance for more than 100 years of different types of technology, different perspectives. But it is new that consumers are so powerfully enabled by technology. And that has changed consumers’ perspective. FinTech is not necessarily about new finance or new tech, it is about new attitudes towards apps, new attitudes towards convenience, new attitudes of consumers and fragmentation of value chains that were before closed and proprietary which are becoming more and more open and more and more subject to competition or new startup. And that opens up opportunities for new startup firm. And finally, from perspective of investors, this is a roller coaster. So you should carefully control risk if you want to limit risk.
 
Secondly, I give you about FinTech business application.  We are going to talk about this in terms of six different perspectives or categories of business startups or opportunities: lending and personal finance, crowd-funding and business financing, payments and retail transactions. Social lending is peer to peer lending service, some famous startups: SBI Social Lending, Crow Bank,... Personal finance management is management daily receipts and expenses, bank balances, securities, insurance,... Next, crow-funding have three  main types: investment, capital contribution, loan. Users select interesting ideas and prospects, then contribute money to implement those ideas, some famous startups of this type: Kickstarter, Campfire,... Business financing is similar to personal finance, but this section supports companies and legal entities. Beside of that, it helps companies perform tasks that need accounting knowledge quickly, such as making tax reports, accounting salaries,... Some famous startup of this type: Freee, VELC, MakeLeaps,... Finally, payments and retail transactions is type that use technologies to make smartphone payable anywhere, some famous startup: coiney, SPIKE, BASE,... Besides, Robot advise is special type that use Ai and smart algorithms to give investment tips to users, some famous startups: WEALTHNAVI, PORTSTAR, THEO,… The last, we will talk about cryptocurrencies that is a digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange that uses strong cryptography to secure financial transactions, control the creation of additional units, and verify the transfer of assets. Cryptocurrencies use decentralized control as opposed to centralized digital currency and central banking systems. The decentralized control of each cryptocurrency works through distributed ledger technology, typically a blockchain, that serves as a public financial transaction database. Bitcoin, first released as open-source software in 2009, is generally considered the first decentralized cryptocurrency. Since the release of bitcoin, over 4,000 altcoins (alternative variants of bitcoin, or other cryptocurrencies) have been created. The good news about cryptocurrencies is that most of them limit the amount of currency that can be created. 
Thirdly, we will talk about FinTech technologies. We have looked at a variety of technologies: identity, privacy, anonymity, blockchain and encryption, big data and analytics, AI, DSS and automation, smartphones and customer tech. Firstly, identity is important for many types of applications and FinTech. As we think about new ways of creating identity either of assets or of individuals, we open up new opportunities for new applications, new ways of doing financial transactions, new ways of reaching out to individuals either more secure of more efficient or more private, more confidently verified in a quick and easy manner. Identity is not a product, identity is a technology that enables different kinds of products to be developed. Next, a cryptocurrency frenzy over the past two years is how most people got introduced to the blockchain. Aside from using cryptocurrencies for private and fast online transactions, blockchain provides a transparent, secure, immutable and reliable ledger to document contracts, transactions, and records. Innovations such as Blockchain Bonds, blockchain clearing, and settlement systems have already been used to make intra-bank and inter-bank transactions cheaper and faster. In addition to traditional financial data collection, new data sources such as mobile banking and the Internet of Things (IoT) provide an additional layer of data gathering. Combined with Artificial Intelligence, Big Data analytics utilize large amounts of old and new data to discover hidden patterns for better risk management and fraud detection. New insights from big data improve the understanding of customer behaviors and help banks to create better and more customized products and services. AI helps banks to analyze their Big Data to improve existing solutions and make better decisions. A more recent AI trend is to use its cognitive abilities to go through a large amount of unstructured text and data to generate more insights and to learn natural language. A more intelligent AI chatbot or virtual assistant can take over repetitive “low-value” operations, such as performing small amount transactions, explaining financial products and providing basic financial advice to customers.
Fourly, we will talk about the implications of FinTech for business. To begin, FinTech is a threat. Because these new technologies are faster and better, people like tech. It is not because the tech firms are so good at finance. It is because they are so good at tech and consumers like tech, tech is profitable and powerful. Next, we are going to look at the global trends in FinTech and broadly that are affecting our future. A lot of start up in FinTech are happening that is a booming market for new FinTech entrepreneurs, activities and investments. There are a lot of mergers and acquisitions happening in the FinTech space, some between FinTech firms, some between traditional financial incumbent firms and start up or vice versa incumbent banks begin bought by FinTech firms. 
Finally, we will talk about the FinTech in VietNam. VietNam have about 120 startups FinTech, payments and peer to peer lending are the two segments with the most active companies. With the rise of the middle class, the number of people using internet is increasing and the population of nearly 100 million people of which young people and know well about technology have a high percent. So VietNam has many conditions to develop FinTech industry. 
In conclusion, FinTech is changing our lives in many ways. FinTech bring to us many opportunities but we need to choose a suitable direction for self growth. 
